# Heart Disease Prediction | Python
## Heart Disease Prediction with Machine Learning Language
- Previous studies have reported accuracy rates of up to 94% [15] using machine learning techniques for heart disease prediction. However, these studies have often used small sample sizes, and the results may not be generalizable to larger populations.
- This particular study is about the data analysis of heart disease prediction by applying Machine Learning Algorithms. The main objective of my paper is to analyze the data and to find out the heart disease prediction of people for any particular dataset. In this research-based project, we wanted to review the topic "The heart disease prediction using the technique of classification in machine learning using the concepts of data mining" and we wanted to analyze the machine learning algorithm and methods of detecting heart disease. Our topic proposes an approach to heart disease prediction using the technique of classification in machine learning using the concepts of data mining.
- Decision Tree Classification (DTC) is a method commonly used in machine learning. This algorithm aims to get better output and prediction, as well as, Support Vector Machine, Linear Regression, Random Forest, Naive Bayes, and K Nearest Neighbor etc. algorithm is also observed in this study for comparing the accuracy and error rate using a performance matrices such as Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Mean Squared Error (MSE) and Root Mean Square Error (RMSE). Moreover, all of these algorithms were used just to see how well they performed for a dataset.
- We have collected 14 attributes of our dataset are along with age, sex, cp, trestbps, chol, fbs, restecg, thalach, exang, oldpeak, slope, ca, thal, target for applying into this prediction process. In this paper, I have recommended using the Decision Tree Classification (DTC) algorithm with 99.99% accuracy for heart disease prediction.
